# S01.01.Intro

This is the start of the Neo4j - 3 sessions short course.

Neo4j is a NoSQL database and more importantly a Graph Database.

With PostgreSQL the focus is usually on performance, optimization and normalization of the dat aschema.

With MongoDB the focus is on schema flexibility, aggregation pipelines and performance

With Graph databases such as Neo4j it's all about exploring and understanding the data. Once you've mastered cypher Neo4j's query language, you reap the value of a graph database through the answers you get and insights you gain about your data.

As we will see graph databases are all about relationships.

In this short 3 classes course, you will

- understand graph networks
- practice cypher on the Northwind dataset
- learn how to analyze a graph network
- and work with Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm


## Course material

The course material is available in the discord

<https://github.com/SkatAI/epita-neo4j>

## For the curious ones - tomorrow evening

> Neo4j Connections: Smarter Apps, Speed, and Security Using a Graph Database

Wednesday, December 18
15:30 - 18:00 GMT | 16:30 -19:00 CET

last chance to register for Smarter Apps, Speed, and Security Using a Graph Database. Attend to learn a faster, smarter way to build apps for fraud detection, GenAI, supply chain optimization, or other use cases dealing with complex, interconnected data.

You’ll hear how Duck Tech built Liora, an AI assistant that you can train with your own data. You’ll also find out how to:

    Solve business problems using the seven graphs in every enterprise
    Better detect fraud and get accurate, explainable GenAI results
    Enhance data governance and security with graph

https://neo4j.com/connections/smarter-apps-speed-and-security-using-a-graph-database/